---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-05-13T17:24:30-03:00
---

> In "Magic Mirror: The Novel as a Software Development Platform", Mark Pesce eloquently argues that the developments we see in modern technology are predicted (if not determined) by science-fiction stories ([Pesce, 1999](https://web.mit.edu/comm-forum/legacy/papers/pesce.html)). As a note of caution, Pesce's chosen examples all display the traits of survivorship bias. That is, there are an infinite number of "inventions" in sci-fi which have not come to pass. Given the long history of the genre, it is not surprising that some of its predictions have become reality. Nevertheless, it is important to remember the "anchoring" effect that mass media has on users' perceptions of what is possible with technology.

> Technology companies frequently misappropriate terms from science fiction in order to make their products sound innovative and exciting ([Newitz, 2021](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0262-4079(21)02120-5)). The original Metaverse envisioned by Stephenson was a dystopian nightmare. It serves as an allegory for how the worst excesses of humanity can corrupt an environment. Similarly, the novel "Ready Player One" presents a world where VR has reduced the majority of humanity to serfdom ([Rafif and Munjid, 2022](https://doi.org/10.22146/lexicon.v8i2.74316)). Given this, the author finds it inexplicable that Facebook chose to rebrand their company around the notion of the Metaverse. It is akin to a military power rebranding to be closer associated with The Empire from Star Wars, or a conglomerate explicitly citing the "Weyland-Yutani Corporation" from Alien as their inspiration.

> Future-gazing sometimes means imagining the worst-case scenarios which may be exploited by future adversaries. There is an inherent tension in this line of research. If the futurist publishes their research, a malicious user may take inspiration from their research. But if the futurist does not publish, people may not be able to defend themselves against novel attacks.

From [Rejected Sci-Fi Ramblings from my MSc](https://shkspr.mobi/blog/2023/04/rejected-sci-fi-ramblings-from-my-msc/) by [Terence Eden](https://shkspr.mobi/)
