---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-05-30T22:33:19-03:00
---

> Take a moment and think about this super power: if you write vanilla HTML, CSS, and JS, all you have to do is put that code in a web browser and it runs. Edit a file, refresh the page, you’ve got a feedback cycle. As soon as you introduce tooling, as soon as you introduce an abstraction not native to the browser, you may have to invent the universe for a feedback cycle. No longer writing CSS and instead writing Sass? Now you need a development server with a build process to watch your files and compile your changes _just to develop and test your project_. You’ve just added a giant, blocking dependency for your project to work. And if you can’t get that dependency working, your project is dead in the water until you can—both now and in the future.

> The more I author code _as it will be run by the browser_ the easier it will be to maintain that code over time, despite its perceived inferior developer ergonomics (remember, developer experience encompasses both the present _and the future_, i.e. “how simple are the ergonomics to build this now _and maintain it into the future_?) I don’t mind typing some extra characters _now_ if it means I don’t have to learn/relearn, setup, configure, integrate, update, maintain, and inevitably troubleshoot a build tool or framework _later_.

From [Cheating Entropy with Native Web Technologies](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2020/cheating-entropy-with-native-web-tech/) by [Jim Nielsen](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/)
