---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-05-25T14:49:56-03:00
---

> Today, many if not most ten-year-old computers work perfectly well for word processing, surfing the Internet, watching movies, listening to music, and most of the other things average consumers do.

> Another advantage Big Tech has is that most consumers do not understand how much processing power they actually need in a PC. Many think they need the latest generation Core i7 CPU to surf the Internet or write a letter. Increasingly inefficient software is part of the reason for this. We use Microsoft Office to write documents in part because we do not know about alternatives like Libre Office, Free Office, and Open Office. Many of us use Microsoft Outlook because we either do not know about or have not bothered to try alternatives, like for instance Thunderbird, Claws Mail, or even leaner faster Linux alternatives like Mutt.

> Now, on top of waiting for Microsoft's slow software to load and run, we are forced to endure advertisements on our computers, because no matter how much a company earns, it always wants more. It will never be satisfied until it has extracted every last penny from us that it can. 

> Usually, a customer only begins to understand that he has been duped after purchasing a high priced item and then realizing that he cannot buy lower priced accessories made my other manufacturers. For example, when a buyer spends $3000 on a new laptop from Apple, he soon learns that he needs all new cables, because the ones he has are incompatible with the ports on his new laptop. He also learns that Apple cables are multiple times the price of other cables. He must also buy only Apple peripherals that are compatible with the ports on his laptop. And he can only purchase software from the Apple store, unless he is more knowledgeable than the average consumer and understands how to load other software using alternative means.

> Something else that Big Tech has on its side is the myth of the efficient market place. This myth says that if a better way of computing existed, we would already have it. When we believe the myth, we deny the manipulation of the computer market by Big Tech. We ignore history--including their refusal to sell lower-priced less powerful computers until Asus forced them to in 2007 with the [EEE PC](https://www.theverge.com/2021/4/16/22388238/asus-eee-pc-netbook-laptop-line-linux-ipad-pro). We ignore the fact that they have been telling us that computers have become less upgradeable because thin and upgradeable are not both possible, until recently when [the Framework laptop revealed that as false](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2022/apr/13/framework-laptop-review-a-modular-pc-easy-to-fix-or-upgrade). Most importantly, when we believe the myth, we abandon the search for better, less expensive options. When we believe that we have thin, light, completely nonupgradeable computers because they are the best products, we do not ask why we have no other options. We simply accept and buy.

> The truth is that Microsoft could have designed Windows 11 to run on any hardware it wanted, even on a fifteen-year-old computer. When you create software, you can make it do virtually whatever you want and run on virtually any computing platform you want. To say that your software "can't" run on a fifteen-year-old computer is to say that you are incapable of making it do that--which is not true. The truth is that you just don't want to make it to do that.

From [Beating Big Tech at the Real Computer Game](https://cheapskatesguide.org/articles/real-computer-game.html) by [Cheapskate's Guide](https://cheapskatesguide.org/)
