---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-04-26T16:11:52-03:00
---

> There's truth to that! I too have a great dissatisfaction with the recommender systems available to me. But I suspect that many who dismiss algorithms outright are throwing the baby out with the bath water. Chronological feeds are dominated by those who post frequently, and building an audience from scratch can take years. Recommender systems can help to solve problems like these.

> > In reality, I don’t think people actually want “full control” over what they read, because that’s too much work. What people are more likely to do is over-subscribe themselves, feel overwhelmed and stagnated in their content diet, and move onto a new platform if the old one doesn’t solve their problem for them. I don’t think most people are interested in painstakingly curating their feeds.

> Recommendation doesn't have to be just a tool that big tech companies use to make a number on a spreadsheet go up. How can we develop algorithms that serve the interests of individuals? 

From [In defense of recommendation](https://tfos.co/p/in-defense-of-recommendation/) by [Jacob O'Bryant](https://tfos.co/)

This is something that i've been looking for a while. I dont think algorithmic timelines are bad as long as they only recommend things from the feeds you are subscribed and using your own thumbs-(up/down) to train that recommendation. Sometimes i have a lot of unread articles, and i dont have the energy to skim through titles, i just want a kind of "top 5 suggested based on your previous votes".
