---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-07-27T16:56:39-03:00
---

> With the way the Internet works these days, if you don't have anonymity, you don't have privacy. [...] The only way of retaining any privacy is by making the association of your identity with your traffic as difficult as possible. [...] In other words, anonymity is the only guarantee you have that any private data associated with your identity will not be used against you when it is eventually sold, stolen, or turned over to some government agency. The only way of doing this is to either not give any private information in the first place or not provide a way for anyone to associate the information you give with your true identity. Since the former is not always possible these days (for example, in the case of opening an account without providing an email address or phone number), that leaves the latter.

> Unfortunately, many organizations now require an email address before they will give you the time of day. 

> Back at the end of the 1980's when the Internet first came to the attention of the masses, anyone who had the required knowledge, a personal computer, and an "always-on" Internet connection could run his own email server and have free email without having to deal with any sort of email provider, and he could also give his friends free email. Anyone with these resources has always been able to run his own email server because email uses an open protocol. Thanks to the inherently free nature of email (free as in freedom), most companies were simply unable to charge for email services. That would have been like charging for air to breath. 

From [The Age of Anonymous Email is Nearly Over](https://cheapskatesguide.org/articles/anonymous-email.html) by [Cheapskate's Guide to Computers and the Internet](https://cheapskatesguide.org/)
