---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-07-15T15:29:24-03:00
---

> We ended up with a lot of these meta-commands. `ParallelCommand`, `LoopCommand`, `ConditionalCommand`...the list goes on. The more we did this, the worse it felt to me. We were basically creating a crappy programming language out of Java classes. And while this did make things a little more reusable, it doubled the boilerplate and split it into tiny pieces.

> The students really struggled with this. It's already difficult for beginners to reason about a single function, much less a meta-function whose pieces are spread across ten different files. I struggled with this when I was a student too, with my commands stomping on each other, ruining each other's exit conditions, etc.

> And at the end of the day, none of this even looks like programming. We would teach students how to write procedural code, with if statements and loops and local variables, and then our autonomous code would throw it all out the window. They weren't writing Java any more, they were writing Command Code.

> After using coroutines successfully for a couple years, I can confidently say that we are never going back. For the first time in a decade, our autonomous code feels like code, and the students can actually write it!

> Notice how none of these things have to do with how the program actually works. Although they can't articulate it, beginners can recognize when they are not learning anything tangible or useful. If you have a hard time persuading a student that some idea is important, consider that it *probably isn't*.

> Commands were a perfect example of this. No amount of explaining the lifecycle methods of `init`, `execute`, `isFinished`, and `end` really stuck with the students - I was always met with blank stares.

From [Coroutines make robot code easy](https://bvisness.me/coroutines/) by [Ben Visness](https://bvisness.me/)
