---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-04-09T00:58:00-03:00
---

> For example: imagine for a moment the value of google.com. What would that domain cost? People’s entire personal and professional lives — email, photos, calendar, documents, etc. — built up over years and years, solely accessible at that domain.

> Now imagine someone who invested years of their life creating value for others and amassing a following on Twitter. They now face a dilemma: all that value lives at a URL they can’t control twitter.com/{username}. Even the word-of-mouth username is something they have zero control over.

> However, if own your domain, create value there, and drive people to it, you’re paying ~$10 a year to build unbounded value over the years — value you control.

> That is why owning a domain (and publishing your content there) is like planting a tree: it’s value that starts small and grows. The best time to own a domain and publish your content there was 20 years ago. The second best time is today.

> This is the what I love about rel=me: it reinforces the value of owning a domain that people respect and trust because, through the years, it becomes a source of quality information. In an internet connected world, domains are a currency of value. Do you want to own your value, or let someone else own it?

From [The Best Time to Own a Domain Was 20 Years Ago; The Second Best Time Is Today](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/2023/best-time-to-own-a-domain/) by [Jim Nielsen](https://blog.jim-nielsen.com/)
