---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-05-14T13:39:50-03:00
---

> I just don't buy a lot of stuff. I'm not interested in lifestyle products and tastemaker brands. When I do buy something, it's usually something I need - as in, not frivolous luxury spending (though I'm certainly not immune to this behavior). I typically won't replace something unless it's broken beyond repair.

> I fear the day my TV gives up, because you can't seem to buy one without the smart anymore. 

> There are so many touchscreens in my life now that I'm starting to get dull aches in my fingertips. Gone is the satisfying tactile response of mechanical buttons and knobs. My induction stovetop requires incessant thumb mashing just to raise the temperature a few notches. If a small amount of water falls on it, it starts beeping. This is in absolutely no way an improvement over my old mechanical one with ceramic hotplates.

> In fact, for every improvement in speed, energy consumption, image resolution or audio fidelity, there seems to be a tradeoff in increased frustration: input lag, incessant bickering about connecting to WiFi, and ever more contrived software mechanisms designed to make me watch ads. I'm old enough to remember both software without built-in marketing schemes and TV:s that turned on instantly and switched channels in the blink of an eye. Streaming services may give better image quality than an old VHS player, but the VHS had zero boot time and never required you to enter a password using a flimsy remote. 

> Nobody wants it, because nobody buys it, because one day, all of a sudden, it just wasn't for sale anymore. 

> Curiously, there's still a booming market for these products, because several specialty online stores do sell them. The difference is that instead of just grabbing these items when also getting a carton of milk, I now have to keep track of my consumption rate, plan and place online orders on sites of dubious usability, and deal with the erratic behavior of delivery companies. Small inconveniences, sure, but ones that add up to quite a long list of similar small inconveniences. 

> From overly enthusiastic store clerks to contrived online tracking, marketing blatantly disrespects my privacy and pollutes my brain. It's not just that it tries to make me buy things I don't need, it's that it makes my quality of life noticeably worse in the process. I like peace and quiet. I like thinking, eating, relaxing, reading, socializing - existing - without constant interruption

> On the rare occasions I do catch a glimpse of a TV commercial, it's by mistake. Usually it's when someone not running an adblocker wants to show me something on their computer, or when I visit someone who watches broadcast TV. Every time it happens, I'm surprised by how many ads there are and how brazen, repetitive and disgusting they come off. 

From [A Life Less Ads](https://www.datagubbe.se/lessads/) by [Carl Svensson](https://www.datagubbe.se/)
