---
layout: "post"
date: 2023-04-29T15:37:46-03:00
---

> Perl had now been replaced with PHP and flat files with MySQL, and the job was truly what you'd call full stack development. All of us did everything, from compiling Apache, PHP and MySQL on freshly installed Slackware boxes, to designing databases, coding PHP and churning out HTML. Deployment was simply a matter of uploading the files from your local machine to the production server.

> Testing? Maybe banging the keyboard a bit to see if your forms validated reasonably, but not much more than that. Truth be told, I couldn't program to save my life. I - well, we - committed many grave and terrible sins. SQL injection mitigation? Please, this was the time of the honest web. Who would even try something so sinister?

> The daily work was mostly routine churn: HTML forms submitted to a PHP backend, saved in a MySQL database. These were simpler sites for simpler times: a single person could easily write, understand and manage the code, database and daily running of what was at this time considered a state of the art web shop. JavaScript was maybe used for mouseover effects or scattered lines of glue logic - after all, the biggest competitor to Netscape 4 was, at this point, Netscape 3.

> Much like how Commodore 64 programmers could keep a map of the entire computer in their head, a moderately competent developer could churn out an acceptable web site in a matter of weeks, understand every single aspect of it and get paid in the process. If I, a quarter century ago, had possessed the experience and knowledge I do now, the simplicity of those early web pages would've felt surreal. And yet, we apparently provided a service that was of some value to some people. A digital commodity, nothing more, nothing less. Actually useful software. 

> For quite some time, this complexity has served us well. It has made life copiously more endurable and rewarded us with great material wealth. Small wonder, then, that we want to squeeze every last drop from it. Sure, your electric toothbrush really shouldn't require firmware upgrades, but there's a buck to be made in all kinds of [planned obsolescence](https://www.datagubbe.se/endofownership/). Web sites don't need tens of megabytes of ads and tracking scripts to function, but someone is still paying for those sweet, sweet data points at which to target ads. It's most certainly a strange idea to run a text editor inside a bundled web browser - but that way it's easier to build for more platforms and you can even hire simpletons like me to write much of the code for it. And since more software is produced than ever, more _bad_ software is also produced than ever before.

From [A Quarter Century of Web Coding](https://www.datagubbe.se/25years/) by [Carl Svensson](https://www.datagubbe.se/)
