---
layout: "post"
date: 2025-01-16T15:07:02-03:00
---

> When the web started one of the best parts about it was the naming of things. To “surf the web” implied fun and adventure and to “browse” implied serendipity. And we seem to have lost that. Let’s go back.

> Finding information on the web was a journey, an adventure. And people wrote about the most random things, went down many rabbit-holes and of course also published things nuttier than squirrel droppings.

> Nowadays the web has taken over the mantle of most in your face medium trying to force you to consume and purchase things. And it “does the research for you” and pushes you into bubbles. Spending time aimlessly browsing for content is touted as inefficient. Operating systems and browsers come with “amazing AI features” that give you summaries of content instead of allowing you to get your own impressions and draw your own conclusions.

> Sure, on the surface this seems great, but it feels like we’re pushed into a world of faster and faster consumption without allowing us and our minds to wander.

> Aimlessly browsing to find things you may not have heard of yet is as important as discovery is exciting

> We need to browse more, find things we haven’t looked for and discard or embrace them. You don’t often go to a clothes shop to buy one special item. It’s fun to try on a few things and maybe find a new style.

> Let’s be browsers again, let’s embrace the weirdness of the web, a library curated by racoons on drugs

> So let’s keep looking around for the strange, the overly detailed and the just bonkers web. And – hey why not – start contributing to it. You can publish, nobody is stopping you.


From [Let’s bring back browsing | Christian Heilmann](https://christianheilmann.com/2024/09/15/lets-bring-back-browsing/)
